sometimes I think when people build a
house they won't express all the cool
things that they can get into the house
and for us in this moment it was a kind
of the opposite we wanted to do as
little as possible and make a
comfortable place to live okay so the
house is super small what's going on
everything was just to be as light on
the ground as possible we wanted to
respect the place the house is just a
simple container and the two long sides
are completely dematerialized
it's just the doors thus class doors and
they can push all the way to the side
like they are now on both sides on a day
like today the breeze just goes right on
through like a dog trot house and you
never really use air conditioning it's
just always wonderful because when it's
all open it feels just like you're in an
outlet covered porch like an outside
space so it's really just it's it's one
room the idea was that because the two
glass walls are so kind of transparent
everything is just inside of the room
inside of the walls and the space just
kind of flows all the way around so in
here we have our kitchen that wall is
our kitchen we have our dining room
which is this table that I built the
only thing that creates a definition of
the space is this little white box and
then the circulation to the bathroom and
to the shower just happens to be around
that box and the box ends up being
either the smallest bedroom or the
biggest bed because that's where jewel
sleeps is behind the TV in the box
here it's the bedroom it's quite small
but it really doesn't matter it's a
really comfortable thing so I just hit
this is where I typically hang out yeah
just apparently be my own little space
because if like they want to watch
something I don't really feel like
watching just close to the doors that
I'm kind of in my own area and the box
actually has on all four sides pocket
doors so he can get his privacy if he
wants but it can completely close us up
off kind of blocked off and I have like
all of that to see which is kind of
wasted on me when I clean I don't get a
wake up to see it cuz they wear glasses
and then I can't see when I wake up
other people told me it's a great
experience it's got a ton of storage
so we've extra cooking supplies in there
they've like miscellaneous in here than
extra food in that box and I can line my
stuff up on the sides and it's really
just a place where I can hang out I can
also do it the way that the bathroom is
organized on the right side of the bed
is the shower and on the left side of
the bed is the toilet and the sink so
there's a glass dividing line between
the two so that there's some privacy but
we put the shower on this side so that
if you if you wanted to you could open
up your shower to the view you shower
with your glasses on so you wouldn't see
the view anyway so we each I originally
did this Jules was gonna sleep on a
pull-out couch we're like a wheely few
more years sleep goes to college will
sleep in this room we started looking
for couches and couldn't find a pole
that we liked and we're like we need to
figure out a new sleeping situation and
there's a lot of things with fire code
out here if you make your house too big
you have to up what you're doing fire
wise and so we built another house
the other house is really the same as
this house but small we wanted it to be
very very close in nature to the first
house
so really the detailing is all very the
same it's a smaller version but what was
really great was by shifting it over and
sliding it up the hill the two things
actually play off of each other and we
just connect them with their really
simple folded metal stair that bridges
between the two foundations my wife and
I Daniele sleep here so really they're
the same size or the same height but one
really feels lifted up than the other a
lot of times the things that look the
simpler so the things that actually take
the most struggle and the most time to
actually work it out to me it's like you
know how small can you make it and it
does everything you want right
it doesn't always cost the total least
that you can spend doesn't take the
least amount of time but in the end it
feels super gratifying to try to get
there
when we first got the place there was
nothing here and so we just wanted to
come spend time here
so the first thing we did was we we kind
of camped so we just we pitch a tent in
the trees and we just came every weekend
we could and just tried to discover what
it was gonna be like you know went where
the Sun came up and what the weather was
like no more tents I'm gonna sleep in
their system actually in a toilet and a
sink so we actually it became glamping
and then BJ would sleep outside in a
hammock dosent I slept in the two
hammocks in between the trees the
hammocks worked until one day the fog
came in so strong it was like raining on
us we got soaked yeah so then we came
out here we would eat here and before
that little house was there this was our
view and this was like this this little
alley of trees was like our living room
basically yes so you start to get a
sense of where you want it to be done
yeah what the weather was like where the
wind came from and just kind of felt it
out for a while and we started thinking
about well what would little the house
be like love the idea of prefab and I'm
an architect
I wanted to be super involved but I
didn't have the time to do all the work
to build something on-site means you got
to be here all the time you got to
answer 100 questions all the time and so
doing something where it could be built
in a factory and then brought all done
and just plopped down that sounded like
a dream so I started doing some research
as to who could help with the prefab you
know you'd start out with a really
simple idea it doesn't get any more
simple than a tube this is
what we started out with the original we
houses I'm going to take an 8 foot high
volume because that times out with
off-the-shelf sliding glass doors and
we're gonna wrap that and we're gonna
make the space go right through you know
so there it is and and whatever your
landscape whatever your view is through
there is what you get I came across
alchemy Jeff mortar and he had done his
first project I told him was that like
the best thing he ever did he's like wow
but I've been working all this time but
I said it's because it was so simple so
pure so perfect it was so close to its
original idea and I said I just want to
do something like that but let's have
fun let's make it even better it was a
little super tiny house one one room
everything was into one little space but
I loved that it was there was nothing
extra it was just super straightforward
so the house was designed in Minneapolis
and it was ended up built in in Oregon
in a factory there and then we ended up
taking it on a truck and bringing it
down here and installing it here you
can't do it in one piece because when
the truck goes down the highway the
maximum width is 15 foot 11 and 3/4 is
like there's a set number that is the
maximum with any module that can drive
down the highway the one of the most
amazing things was when the crane came
to lift the houses and put them onto the
site the crane had to actually lift the
houses and thread the needle between the
trees and it's crazy amazing it looks
like the trees grew up after the houses
were here but the people with the crane
and the set crew did such an amazing job
of just barely missing the trees the
trees are completely grown around the
house the prefab for me was a way of
building super efficiently when folks
build in a factory they want to get it
out of their factory so they can get the
next thing in when you build on site
everybody wants to juggle your job with
everybody else's job and it's really
it's like you have to beg them to come
to your site to finish the work right so
prefab is a really efficient way of
working so everything was already
installed including the ceiling fan the
sinks the toilets it was all built in
Oregon completely the only thing that
was done here on-site where the windows
were put in on-site because they didn't
want them to jiggle around in the truck
as it was moving prefab and it's time
efficient and it's resource efficient
and it doesn't have to be small ideas it
can be big ideas
this was a really interesting kind of
spot because it's it's tucked in the
trees and it's actually from higher up
on the site you don't actually even see
the house at all but from this place the
view opens up and you actually can feel
like you're part of the valley so the
original plan was just to do this one
this one house and we situated it so it
was on the edge of the view the porch
actually is a second module that
attaches to the the internal house and
actually the porch is completely
cantilevered off the edge so from this
line forward everything is actually has
it just air underneath of it and so from
the other side of the house looking back
it's completely reaching out into the
landscape so by the time you get to here
you're well over the view you're well
over the ground and you're up in the air
so even though the house feels
completely embedded on the uphill side
it's completely free and separate on the
downhill side one of the things that we
wanted to do was find a material for the
inside of the house that could be the
same on the floor the walls and the
ceiling and inside and outside and so we
landed on this IPE which is a tropical
hardwood because it's so tough and so
water resistant and so pest resistant it
can be outside and inside that kind of
lines the inside of the box the outside
of the box is covered in Corten steel
and it's actually a steel that rusts on
its own in order to protect itself from
the elements so all of this material
here and then on the outside of the
buildings is Corten steel the pattern on
the outside of the building is a custom
pattern that Jeff Warner came up with
that is a series of in-and-out pieces of
different dimensions he likes this idea
because when you put two modules
together the seam can be concealed and
you don't see where the seam is it's not
an obvious break and so on the side of
this big house the two modules got put
together and you can't tell where the
seam is
so this is the mini mini kitchen with
our mini fridge so we have the full-size
and the shed which is my mom's brilliant
idea like we have no freezer and then we
have an iOS countertop ice maker because
that often in the winter we do warm but
mostly we grill because the ovens pretty
tiny it's a small oven microwave
combined european we have to read the
directions is the first one to learn so
that the table is a piece of black
walnut from a salvaged tree that fell
it's one piece of wood it's from a
gargantuan old tree it was the easiest
table in the world to make because all
you do is you cut it and sand it and
done and I got some flakes from Etsy so
everything you know like like the house
that the wood just floats in the air
disco sory but this all depends on the
weather sometimes actually it's not warm
enough to actually open both sides of
the house and so we just open one side
of the house it's run the really hot
days that you open it and both sides the
wind can go right on through fully
tunable wanted to integrate all the
details for all the things that need to
be here but it didn't necessarily want
to see them so all of the doors and all
the tracks are completely integrated
that is actually a roller-blind that
comes down from the ceiling it's a 25
foot long bug screen that comes out of
the ceiling and you can still see
through the view you still get all the
air but it actually makes it really
really Pleasant so one big roller from
there all the way to there and so when
we want to have the windows open but at
like dusk when the bugs are getting a
little bit nasty we can actually shut
that down in this the breeze can still
come through so we can really open the
whole house and make it a big screen
porch it's really super Pleasant
especially it gets cool at night and its
really pleasant you don't need air
conditioning and so you just have the
wind blowing through and it makes it
like amazing to sleep actually an added
benefit of the screens I can tell you is
we actually put the screens down when we
leave at the end of the weekend and it
and when the birds are in a migratory
season it actually the screens enough to
keep the birds from getting confused by
the glass and so it kind of there's a
double double purpose here let's move it
it gets really when all the doors pile
on it's really dark but
you get better light
so then the other half of the bathroom
is on this side of the of the bed and
it's basically just a little floating
sink and a toilet and a medicine cabinet
there's a another pocket door for
privacy here the thing that I actually
thought was kind of a coolest thing that
other people don't in my family think is
so cool is that when the pocket door
closes it doesn't touch the glass it
stops at the column very little privacy
so we had a little disagreement about
[Laughter]
privacy the glass wall is like you know
the sacred thing you don't want to touch
the glass wall so so anything that comes
to the glass wall has to like respect
the glass wall so there's a little bit
of respect right here
so on this side first thing you run into
is the shoe stand that's a little block
I've built so it's all laminated pieces
we put back together so most of the time
I come up here and build little projects
that because I can't sit still even on
this side even though it's very much
embedded in the ground here the metal
box actually floats even above the
foundation there's a little gap you can
see that's here that actually keeps this
off the foundation and then the two
houses are actually slip off of their
foundations in in a kind of a similar
way but opposite so that house is pushed
that way and that way and this house is
pushed this way in that way and because
of that the gap underneath from all
sides it looks like the box is floating
and not in the ground the foundations in
the ground but the Box floats so when
you get to the other side when it really
floats it makes sense it's really
hovering there are always rules about
everything that you do when you build
something so when you build a house you
have to have exterior lighting it's like
a rule you can't get your permit without
it so I was trying to think about okay
well how can you do exterior lighting
that actually feels right because I
didn't want to attach a light to the
house I didn't want to have something
looks like an industrial light of some
sort I ended up finding these are core
10 steel like what's MIT the house is
made out of and they're actually called
twigs and they look and feel organic
like they were the grew here and so then
the way to connect the two independent
volumes this is a series of folded
galvanized steel plates that really just
span between the two foundations it's
really just this little plate of Steel
and then all the grounds can just flow
right on through so when it rains all
the water just runs between the houses
and they really feel independent and so
it almost disappears
so the sighting of this house it has the
same relationship on its uphill side as
the first house house but because it's
the topography actually is changed here
you actually then you because it's
pushed you rise up and from this one it
creates a fully different view than the
first house what it does functionally is
it actually creates privacy between the
two bedrooms the two solid walls
actually create a separation and the
angle of view is cut off so we can sleep
here and there's no window shades
there's no privacy shades but there's
privacy so where there's nobody looking
because they're so far away is always
open but where there's someone else on
the site it's contained so that's really
the magic of the sighting of the two
houses so Remus has taken this
opportunity because that ever allowed in
this house he's curious so this house
has similar sliding doors and it
actually has sliding screens instead of
the rolling screens because there's it's
smaller and there's just two we just
moved the sliding screen from one side
to the other and we can either have this
side fully open or that side fully open
and we can do the same kind of breezy
thing but we didn't have to have the
rolling shade in order to do it really
the construction of this house and the
construction of that house are really
the same and the difference really is
that here we didn't need a TV and a bed
so the obstruction between the occupied
space and the service space is our
closet so we actually have a so on this
side we have a washer/dryer in one unit
and then on this side we have you know
like a grown-up closet
when we store things anywhere we can
store things when you have a little
house you just store things if anywhere
you can and then we walk around it the
same way as in the other house to the
shower so in this house you can actually
fully open this up and then you can
actually shower outside so you can take
a shower and not use the shade and keep
it fully open you still actually have
visual privacy from the other house but
you actually can be part of the view and
it's all the floors so this is the same
IPE flooring so that the inside of all
the boxes are IPE on the floor the wall
and the ceiling inside and outside so we
the trick was to find a material that
could be all of the surfaces and inside
and outside and survive the weather and
actually because of that we can take it
right into the shower and it can be the
floor of the shower it can be the wall
of the shower and even the ceiling in
the shower it the other name of IPE is
iron wood and so it will last for like
50 years in the wet it doesn't mold it
doesn't rot it's super hard the box ends
up being first of all it's a little bit
of light material it's oak and it also
it gives us spatial separation the
reason I love it that they're boxes is
they don't touch the side walls and
space flows around and so it's a way of
separating the spaces and in each house
there's really only a need to separate
one time yes no walls no walls so
similarly the other side has the sink
unit and the toilet and and medicine
cabinet the really I mean there's
there's no there's no privacy shades
you're always outside and then you know
like I said I'm always antsy so I built
these little cabinets you know where we
recharge our phone or put a light this
is this is mahogany this is the same
wood that the windows are made out of
but it has a similar quality from the
EPA and right now I'm making these
benches this one's less far along than
this one but they're going
be where you can put your clothes and
take a shower hey I really can't sit
still so I always have to do something
and so as long as there's a project it's
a mess inside of wires but the beautiful
thing is when you close it up you don't
sense them right and then I can
sometimes you find really cool things
this is the most amazing light that sits
on a charger and and then it's like a
little bottle and you can take it
anywhere and have it be a glowing bottle
of light at night so it looks a little
nice Stanley we tried as we did venture
out from the house we tried to make
outside spaces that could be part of the
living of the house and it feels like
the whole thing is a place where you
live it's not just a little teeny house
one of the things especially when the
weather is wonderful like it is today we
created spaces outside where we could
actually you know hang out
so we're that dining table is we also
tried to get a little place where you
can sit down and read a book in the Sun
or in the shade we ended up choosing
this 25 year old olive tree that we
found that's a failed a piece of
furniture that's like a prototype it
pulled itself apart wrong kind of wood
this also is the place where we do
almost all of our cooking it's half a
smoker and half a grill so it's actually
really outdoor living and so all of
these cabinets have these are all kind
of steel door cabinets so I can get in
there clean the coals you know and get
in there and clean it out or it's a
little bit of work but you know the best
things take efforts yeah we're trying to
find the balance between the natural and
the man-made these steps these are out
in the wild grass and they just feather
out into the landscape
so that line between like what we did
and what we didn't do what we found is
super blurry and so when we created this
Terrace here with the pool in it that
was the one place where we said okay
we're gonna have some grass we're gonna
have it more tailored and more manicured
and then all around it it's the natural
environment just comes in the trick
about the pool is can we get the water
up to the surface of the surround so
that when light reflects off of it it
doesn't look like there's any edges and
so there's this really cool little trick
slot right here that's only half an inch
wide and the water actually this stone
and this stone are actually the exact
same elevation but the capillary action
pulls the water into the slot and so as
the water circulates through the pool it
returns to the system through this
little slot so the water is always just
completely level maniacal it's almost
like a reflecting pool more than it is a
smooth pool it's solar thermal heating
the water recirculates to the top of the
little house and it goes through so many
tubes that it gets heated by the Sun and
then it comes back into the pool and
that's actually how it warms itself the
pool cover is actually like cool the
hatch in the bottom of the floor of the
pool opens and the pool cover starts to
uncurl and it starts to float towards
the surface the architect of the house
came here and after the pool is here and
he said oh my god
the pool cover is the coolest thing it's
like a James Bond movie and it just
keeps unrolling and keeps floating until
it gets it in and so we closed that
night to keep the heat in and this is
the only kind of cool cover that you can
get when the water is this the same
elevation there's no tracks you know it
has to float
as you can see the garden because when
you first come to the site and you look
for a place to sleep you want to you
don't want to be super exposed you want
to find a place where you can kind of
Nestle and these little alleys of trees
where like the comfortable spot it's
like primitive man what is the first
thing they do they make a fire pit right
yeah you find shelter in the trees you
make a fire and a fire pit and you know
you live it so Danielle said one of the
things we must have is we must have a
garden for vegetables and herbs and
things and so this is another project
that I built it's actually a kit like a
regular old greenhouse hoop house kit
they're meant to just be hoops that are
parallel and they put plastic over the
ends and make a greenhouse so I ended up
getting the kit and just taking the same
parts but arraying them in in a doughnut
shape and the reason that we did it at
all is we needed to have an enclosure to
keep the deer out and so Jules and I
both the the structure together and then
these are just water troughs like the
cows drink out of and these are crazy
carrots
oh and we're supposed to pick up let's
try actually yeah these were from seeds
let's see what happens there's still
little baby carrots so some way how
funny that is living in the city we
don't do this like this is so exciting
and these are gonna be green beans I'm
hoping I see flowers so I think that
they're gonna flower green beans and
these peoples went crazy we don't really
know that what we were doing it so I
think I might have over planted the
seeds the whole thing even the
artichokes were seeds started those in
San Francisco come look at my watermelon
yeah it's a serious look at this
artichoke it's a serious
like year 1 and then in the center where
it all came together we we planted
grapes I mean we're not really like
green thumb people honestly admit the
fact that any of its growing is a
miracle so this this this one's doing
well and then that's our little fruit
tree orchard that's why there's a fence
around it because there's 15 fruit trees
it I'd made this trail because this is
how we get to our water tank and then
onto the hiking trails yeah so from up
here you can see how those houses are
just you can't they're concealed by the
trees so the original plan was to put a
big house up here and as you get up
higher it you do see over the trees and
you do see further but it felt it felt
more intimate down at the lower part of
the hill
and it's also nice to have some natural
environment above you and below you the
beautiful breeze that comes up the hill
it's just been the spot it's just as
magical so we wanted to road be in the
middle of it
and all of those things that you learn
in architecture school about opening one
side and closing the other and letting
the solar heat in the winter and let the
breeze cool in the summer it all works I
think a lot of people don't necessarily
buy into the idea of less is more a lot
of people think that more is more and
they add features and they add size and
they add complexity and it makes them
feel like they've actually gotten more
and I think it's much more difficult and
much harder to kind of get there through
doing less and so that's the fun
challenge the American system of
building is you cover all the
intersections with a molding or a trim
modern detailing exposes every problem
and you have to resolve it you see where
everything comes together there's
nowhere to hide if you look at every
intersection of every material
none of them look happenstance everyone
looks intentional everyone looks like it
was laid out on purpose and so that to
me is like the resolution that most
people don't ever carry a look at or see
but you I think you feel it when you
when you're just in the environment yeah
like every column is on the board
spacing every light every sprinkler
every piece comes together in a way that
was planned and so it's really hard to
resolve all those details and buildings
and as the building get bigger and more
complicated have more requirements that
is a bigger and bigger challenge but for
me it's this kind of poetic puzzle like
how can you really make it feel like it
there's a harmony and all the pieces
that come together
I think you learned this when you're in
architecture school that this kind of
iterative process where you're always
kind of layering layering ideas and then
trying to strip out stuff that gets in
the way and you try to focus in on that
like kernel of the idea and you want
every little detail to just reinforce
that one simple clear idea that's what's
really great about building something
small is that you can actually get
closer to resolving all the weird
distractions that come up in the world
like the structure the regulatory things
your wife's you know requests like
everything that comes up like you want
to be able to address all of those
things and you want them to look
effortless and like they just work
inevitable so and that's what's it's
hard on a big project it's a little
easier in a small project but it takes a
lot of discipline to just keep at it I
always felt like really great
architecture is like a really great poem
like you have to work at work and work
at you reduce it down to the things that
only say like what they have to say and
you get rid of everything else and
that's like where the sweet spot is for
me
you